README.md, before:

# BMSC203inR
Rstudio/Rmd and jupyter/R notebooks converting Biomedical Science Statistics Tutorials from Excel/SPSS to R.

BMSC203 is a 2nd year statistics course offered at the Australian Catholic
University. The course was developed by Jennifer Taylor and Peter Mahoney of
ACu. I was privileged to help with the teaching in this subject, and it
was a good chance for me to review all the inferential statistics I was rather
rusty on.

The tutorials were largely written by Peter Mahoney, is my understanding, but
if I have left anyone out (Jennifer?), please let me know and I'll put their
name in the files as authors as well.  The R code and commentary is my work.

The course was built on tutorials using Excel and SPSS. I wanted to see if the
tutorials were doable using R.  Mainly I did it to up my R skills, but also to
see if the course could be feasibly done using R instead. For the particular
students this course reaches (biology and biomedical science), I feel that the
hurdle of learning programming, especially with the, IMHO, baroque syntax and
poorly documented semantics of the language, would be too much for this
course.  Sure, many of the students would cope, but others would be deflected
from the primary purpose, of learning statistical hypothesis testing.

So this is an exercise in walking through R with externally set tasks.  Most of
the scripts are Rmarkdown scripts developed using Rstudio. I quite like the
Rstudio environment, it takes away a lot of the friction of developing R and searching and reading the documentation.

Very pleasantly, every task was achievable with R.  I did some low level
programming for practice in the syntax, but all the tasks were doable with high
level functions. Some of the functions had to be downloaded from CRAN.  They
all seemed to work well, but I am curious about how well engineered the code
is. Are there any unit tests?

One tute, tute7 was developed using jupyter with the R kernel. This was an
experiment in using jupyter for literate programming in R. I decided that I
preferred Rstudio, for its better editing, access to documentation, cleaner
work flow (fewer kernel restarts), uncluttered source files, and superior tab completion.  Plus I had to have an R console open for checking things, and access to the R documentation, so I had Rstudio open anyway!  Perhaps jupyter for python still, until something better shows up.

Anyway, if you have any comments on the code or the notebooks, I would be happy
to hear them. You'll see a lot of it is exploratory, which is very easy to do
in Rstudio. 

The code here is for perusal only, and not to be used for any other purpose
without the written permission of the authors.

Andrej Panjkov
Jun 2016

-- 
andrejpanjkov@gmail.com 0417 551 435

Hey, I am available for 
* data programming
* mathematical and statistical consulting,
* private tuition in maths, stats and physics.

OpenPGP ID: 0xF417B9DD
Fingerprint: AE7D 079D 872F EED3 6C93 1DC8 0AC7 CF96 F417 B9DD

(Ask me if you want to learn about email encryption with openPGP.)


     |
    /A\
   | N |
   | D |
   | R |
   | E |
   | J |
  /| | |\
 |_|_|_|_|
   /___\
    |||
   @@@@@
  @@@@@@@

Commit message:

notes on non-parametric test critical value discrepancies

README.md, after:

# BMSC203inR
Rstudio/Rmd and jupyter/R notebooks converting Biomedical Science Statistics Tutorials from Excel/SPSS to R.

BMSC203 is a 2nd year statistics course offered at the Australian Catholic
University. The course was developed by Jennifer Taylor and Peter Mahoney of
ACU. I was privileged to help with the teaching in this subject, and it
was a good chance for me to review all the inferential statistics I was rather
rusty on.

The tutorials were largely written by Peter Mahoney, is my understanding, but
if I have left anyone out (Jennifer?), please let me know and I'll put their
name in the files as authors as well.  The R code and commentary is my work.

The course was built on tutorials using Excel and SPSS. I wanted to see if the
tutorials were doable using R.  Mainly I did it to up my R skills, but also to
see if the course could be feasibly done using R instead. For the particular
students this course reaches (biology and biomedical science), I feel that the
hurdle of learning programming, especially with the, IMHO, baroque syntax and
poorly documented semantics of the language, would be too much for this
course.  Sure, many of the students would cope, but others would be deflected
from the primary purpose, of learning statistical hypothesis testing.

So this is an exercise in walking through R with externally set tasks.  Most of
the scripts are Rmarkdown scripts developed using Rstudio. I quite like the
Rstudio environment, it takes away a lot of the friction of developing R and searching and reading the documentation.


Very pleasantly, every task was achievable with R.   I did some low level
programming for practice in the syntax, but all the tasks were doable with high
level functions. Some of the functions had to be downloaded from CRAN.  They
all seemed to work well, but I am curious about how well engineered the code
is. Are there any unit tests?

The statistical results obtained with R agreed with the hand-cast results, and
the SPSS results (with perhaps very minor differences), except in the case of
Tutorial 10, which covers Mann-Whitey-U and Wilcoxon-Signed-Rank tests.  Here,
the table of critical values produced by R was quite different to the one in
the tutorial (from Fowler).  A brief survey of critical values for these tests
showed great variation between sources.

One tute, tute7 was developed using jupyter with the R kernel. This was an
experiment in using jupyter for literate programming in R. I decided that I
preferred Rstudio, for its better editing, access to documentation, cleaner
work flow (fewer kernel restarts), uncluttered source files, and superior tab completion.  Plus I had to have an R console open for checking things, and access to the R documentation, so I had Rstudio open anyway!  Perhaps jupyter for python still, until something better shows up.

Anyway, if you have any comments on the code or the notebooks, I would be happy
to hear them. You'll see a lot of it is exploratory, which is very easy to do
in Rstudio. 

The code here is for perusal only, and not to be used for any other purpose
without the written permission of the authors.

Andrej Panjkov
Jun 2016

-- 
andrejpanjkov@gmail.com 0417 551 435

Hey, I am available for 
* data programming
* mathematical and statistical consulting,
* private tuition in maths, stats and physics.

OpenPGP ID: 0xF417B9DD
Fingerprint: AE7D 079D 872F EED3 6C93 1DC8 0AC7 CF96 F417 B9DD

(Ask me if you want to learn about email encryption with openPGP.)


     |
    /A\
   | N |
   | D |
   | R |
   | E |
   | J |
  /| | |\
 |_|_|_|_|
   /___\
    |||
   @@@@@
  @@@@@@@
